# Code splitting

## Background

Code splitting acts on the principle that loading less code will speed up your
app. Say for example that we're building a complex dashboard application that
includes the venerable d3 library for graphing data. Your users start
complaining because it takes too long to load the login screen.

So, assuming that performance problems can be resolved by less code, how can we
solve this one? Well, do we really _need_ to have that code for the chart when
the user loads the login screen? Nope! We could load that on-demand.

Luckily for us, there's a built-in way to do this with JavaScript standards.
It's called a dynamic import and the syntax looks like this:

```javascript
import('/some-module.js').then(
  module => {
    // do stuff with the module's exports
  },
  error => {
    // there was some error loading the module...
  },
)
```

To take this further, React has built-in support for loading modules as React
components. The module must have a React component as the default export, and
you have to use the `<React.Suspense />` component to render a fallback value
while the user waits for the module to be loaded.

```javascript
// smiley-face.js
import React from 'react'

function SmileyFace() {
  return <div>üòÉ</div>
}

export default SmileyFace

// app.js
import React from 'react'

const SmileyFace = React.lazy(() => import('./smiley-face'))

function App() {
  return (
    <div>
      <React.Suspense fallback={<div>loading...</div>}>
        <SmileyFace />
      </React.Suspense>
    </div>
  )
}
```

## Exercise

Our app has a `<textarea />`, and get this: you can type WHATEVER. YOU. WANT.
Cool right? And to make it even cooler, we also put it in this cool box that
moves around with your cursor. It's super duper fun.

But one day our product manager üë®‚Äçüíº came along and said that users are
complaining the app is taking too long to load. We're using a library called
`vanilla-tilt` to have a really cool effect, but users only need to load it if
they click the "show tilt" button and loading it ahead of time makes the app
load slower.

So your job as a performance professional is to load the code on-demand so the
user doesn't have to wait.

For this one, you'll need to open the final in isolation and open the Chrome
DevTools Network tab to watch the webpack chunk load when you click "show tilt."
Your objective is to have the network load that same chunk so vanilla-tilt isn't
in the bundle to begin with.

üí∞ Here's a quick tip: In the Network tab, there's a dropdown for artificially
throttling your network speed. It defaults to "Online" but you can change it to
"Fast 3G", "Slow 3G", etc.

## Extra Credit

### üíØ eager loading

So it's great that the users can get the app loaded faster, but it's annoying
when 99% of the time the reason the users are using the app is so they can
interact with our textarea. We don't want to have to make them wait first to
load the app and then again to load vanilla-tilt. Wouldn't it be cool if we
could have vanilla-tilt load in the background after the user sees the app in
the first place?

See if you can make that work.

üí∞ Hint: you'll use `React.useEffect`

### üíØ webpack magic comments

If you're using webpack to bundle your application, then you can use webpack
[magic comments](https://webpack.js.org/api/module-methods/#magic-comments) to
have webpack instruct the browser to prefetch dynamic imports:

```javascript
import(/* webpackPrefetch: true */ './some-module.js')
```

When webpack sees this comment, it adds this to your document's `head`:

```javascript
<link rel="prefetch" as="script" href="/static/js/1.chunk.js">
```

With this, the browser will automatically load this JavaScript file into the
browser cache so it's ready ahead of time.

The change itself is minimal, but pull up the DevTools to make sure it's loading
properly (you'll need to uncheck the "Disable cache" button to observe any
changes).

## Notes

Another thing which we wont cover in this workshop, but you should look into
later, is using the `webpackChunkName` magic comment which will allow webpack to
place common modules in the same chunk. This is good for components which you
want loaded together in the same chunk (to reduce multiple requests for multiple
modules which will likely be needed together).

## ü¶â Elaboration & Feedback

After the instruction, copy the URL below into your browser:
http://ws.kcd.im/?ws=React%20Performance&e=code%20splitting&em=
