# Window large lists with react-window

> NOTE: We're going to be using a library called `react-window`. Some of you may
> have used this before and others may not have used it or anything else like
> it. I normally like to build up to abstractions like this one by building a
> simple version of the abstraction ourselves, but if we did that, we'd be here
> all day. Implementing this is nontrivial, so try to focus on the concepts even
> though we're using a library.

## Background

As we learned in the last exercise, React is really optimized at updating the
DOM during the commit phase.

Unfortunately, there's not much React can do if you simply need to make **huge**
updates to the DOM. And as fast as React is in the reconciliation phase, if it
has to do that for tens of thousands of elements that's going to take some time
("perf death by a thousand cuts"). In addition, our own code that runs during
the "render" phase may be fast, but if you have to do that tens of thousands of
times, you're going to have a hard time being fast on low-end devices.

There's no UI that reveals these problems more than dataviz, grids, tables, and
lists with lots of data. There's only so much you can do before we have to
conclude that we're simply running too much code (or running the same small
amount of code too many times).

But here's the trick. Often you don't need to actually display tens of thousands
of list items, table cells, or data points to users. So if that content isn't
displayed, then you can kinda cheat by doing some "lazy" just-in-time rendering.

So let's say you had a grid of data that rendered 100 columns and had 5000 rows.
Do you really need to render all 500000 cells for the user all at once? They
certainly wont see or be able to interact with all of that information at once.
You'll only display a "window" of 10 columns by 20 rows (so 200 cells for
example), and the rest you can delay rendering until the user starts scrolling
around the grid.

Maybe you can render a few cells outside the view just in case they're a really
fast scroller. In any case, you'll save yourself a LOT of computational power by
doing this "lazy" just-in-time rendering.

This is a concept called "windowing" and in some cases it can really speed up
your components that render lots of data. There are various libraries in the
React ecosystem for solving this problem. My personal favorite is called
`react-window`. Here's an example of how you would adapt a list to use
`react-window`'s `FixedSizeList` component:

```jsx
// before
function MyListOfData({items}) {
  return (
    <ul>
      {items.map(item => (
        <li key={item.id}>{item.name}</li>
      ))}
    </ul>
  )
}
```

```jsx
// after
function MyListOfData({items}) {
  return (
    <ul>
      <FixedSizeList
        width={300}
        height={300}
        itemCount={items.length}
        itemSize={20}
        itemData={{items}}
      >
        {ListItem}
      </FixedSizeList>
    </ul>
  )
}

function ListItem({data, style, index}) {
  const {items} = data
  return <li style={style}>{items[index].name}</li>
}
```

In summary, rather than iterating over all the items in your list, you simply
tell `FixedSizeList` how many rows are in your list, what size they are, and
then it will render the `ListItem` (the component you pass as the children prop)
that number of times with that amount of space, but it will do so lazily. You
can provide your own `itemData` which will be passed to your `ListItem`
component as the `data` prop.

react-window has some really awesome capabilities for all sorts of lists
(including variable sizes and grids). Definitely give it a look to speed up your
lists.

## Exercise

Production deploys:

- [Exercise](https://react-performance.netlify.app/isolated/exercise/04.js)
- [Final](https://react-performance.netlify.app/isolated/final/04.js)

üë®‚Äçüíº The product manager noticed that we're only rendering the top 100 matches and
they're frustrated because they like scrolling for eternity. We tried to explain
to them about React's reconciliation and commit phases, but they just smiled,
gave us a high five and said "You're smart! I'm sure you can do this!"

So in this exercise, we've removed the `items.slice(0, 100)` and now we're
rendering all the items. Even without throttling your CPU, you should notice a
serious performance problem here any time there's any render of any kind. Go
ahead and try doing some profiling if you like, but I think you know what you
need to do. You need to window this stuff! Run less code, and speed up your
component.

Note that üí∞ Marty the Money Bag has done a tiny bit of work for you that's
specific to how you integrate Downshift and react-window. He's done a good job
documenting what he's done so you can read about the changes he made if you
want. üê® Kody the Koala Bear will be there to help you know what changes you
need to make. Good luck!

## ü¶â Elaboration and Feedback

<div>
<span>After the instruction, if you want to remember what you've just learned, then </span>
<a rel="noopener noreferrer" target="_blank" href="https://ws.kcd.im/?ws=React%20Performance%20%E2%9A%A1&e=04%3A%20Window%20large%20lists%20with%20react-window&em=">
  fill out the elaboration and feedback form.
</a>
</div>
